{\rtf1 {\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\cf1\b1 From: \b0\tab Melissa Fahning <Melissa.Fahning@so.mnscu.edu>\par
\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\cf1\b1 To:\b0\tab Matt.Gehring@house.mn\par
\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\cf1\b1 Date: \b0\tab 10/14/2013 1:50 PM\par
\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\cf1\b1 Subject: \b0\tab RE: American Indian questions\par
\par
Matt,\par \par Good to see you in Winona and Rochester last week, we greatly appreciate your visiting our campuses and learning first-hand the need for bonding.\par \par I believe I finally have the answer to your questions. Again, my apologies for the delay, but we have now heard from every institution.\par \par The first question: Does your institution have an American Indian Advisory Council? Ten  institutions responded YES (with two sharing an advisory group):\par \par \par \par \u183 ?        Bemidji State University (shared with Northwest Technical College )\par \par \u183 ?        Central Lakes College\par \par \u183 ?        Fond du Lac Tribal and Community College\par \par \u183 ?        Itasca Community College\par \par \u183 ?        Minneapolis Community and Technical College\par \par \u183 ?        Minnesota State University, Mankato\par \par \u183 ?        Minnesota State University Moorhead\par \par \u183 ?        Northwest Technical College ( shared with Bemidji State University)\par \par \u183 ?         Rainy River Community College\par \par \u183 ?        St Cloud State University\par \par For the second question: Does your institution grant world language credit for demonstrated  proficiency in an AI language?  Fifteen institutions responded YES.\par \par \par \u183 ?        Anoka Ramsey Community College\par \par \u183 ?        Central Lakes College\par \par \u183 ?        Fond du Lac Tribal and Community College\par \par \u183 ?        Lake Superior College\par \par \u183 ?        Minneapolis Community and Technical College\par \par \u183 ?        Northwest Technical College\par \par \u183 ?        Rainy River Community College\par \par \u183 ?        St. Cloud State University\par Yes if asked, but no one has \u8211 ?\par \par \u183 ?        Alexandria Technical and Community College\par \par \u183 ?        Bemidji State University\par \par \u183 ?        Dakota County Technical College\par \par \u183 ?        North Hennepin Community College\par \par \u183 ?        Pine Technical College\par \par \u183 ?        Ridgewater College\par \par \u183 ?        Winona State University\par \par Thanks Matt,\par Melissa\par \par \par From: Matt Gehring [mailto:Matt.Gehring@house.mn]\par Sent: Thursday, October 03, 2013 9:55 AM\par To: Melissa Fahning\par Subject: Re: American Indian questions\par \par Hi Melissa,\par \par Not a problem, I appreciate the update.\par \par The reason for my request is that we're updating our House Research "Indians, Indian Tribes, and State Government" guidebook, which includes a section on higher education issues - a link to the old version is here: http://www.house.leg.state.mn.us/hrd/pubs/indiangb.pdf  If you look at page 89, you'll see the short paragraph where the updated statistics will go.\par \par I'm also open to adding a sentence or two on other types of unique American Indian programs/opportunities that may be offered to MnSCU students.  I know that wasn't part of my original question, but if you have any suggestions for that please let me know.  (I'll probably be adding a sentence about an American Indian student housing community at the U of MN, for example).\par \par We're hoping to get a draft update finalized by, roughly, the end of next week -- so if you can make that timing work, that would be great.\par \par Thanks again.\par \par Matt\par \par \par \par >>> Melissa Fahning <Melissa.Fahning@so.mnscu.edu<mailto:Melissa.Fahning@so.mnscu.edu>> 10/3/2013 9:25 AM >>>\par Matt,\par \par Regarding your questions on how many colleges and universities have established American Indian Advisory Committees, and if MnSCU students can receive a foreign language credit from their American Indian language skills, we ended up having to survey every MnSCU campus because that\u8217 ?s not information we maintain centrally. My apologies for the delay in getting back to you with this.\par \par I just spoke with the person who is surveying the campuses and she is still waiting for 8 more to respond (and 4 of those 8 were originally listed with advisory committees) so we\u8217 ?re following up with them.\par \par I greatly appreciate your patience on this request and thought I would check in with you to see if we can have a few more days to make sure we touch base with every campus. If the information is going to be included in your research brief, we want it to be accurate!\par \par Thanks Matt, and again, I appreciate your patience.\par \par Melissa\par \par }